workloads/private-aks/README.md, before:

# Private AKS

> **Warning**
> If you plan to deploy AKS into environment which has route `0.0.0.0/0` to your
> firewall, then you *must* make the required firewall openings before deploying AKS.
> **Otherwise AKS deployment will fail**.
> 
> Follow these instruction for the required openings:
> [Outbound rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress)

This below document tries to explain various problems that you might see 
if you don't have the required connectivity from the AKS cluster to the required targets.

If you see *any of the below problems*, then you need to double check that
you have the required connectivity from the AKS cluster to the required targets as documented in the above link.

## No connectivity

User Defined Route (UDR) implemented in AKS subnet to route all traffic to Azure Firewall in a hub VNET.

Here is example error message if require connectivity is not configured:

```bash
ERROR: (CreateVMSSAgentPoolFailed) Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, 
please see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror
and https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses for more information. 
Details: Code="VMExtensionProvisioningError" Message="VM has reported a failure when processing extension 'vmssCSE'. 
Error message: \"Enable failed: failed to execute command: command terminated with exit status=50\n[stdout]\n
{ \"ExitCode\": \"50\", \"Output\": \"sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_helpers_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 
/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n++ CC_SERVICE_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.service.in\\n++ CC_SOCKET_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.socket.in\\n++ CNI_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/cni/net.d\\n++ CNI_BIN_DIR=/opt/cni/bin\\n++ CNI_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/cni/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/crictl/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/containerd/downloads\\n++ RUNC_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/runc/downloads\\n++ K8S_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/kubernetes/downloads\\n+++ lsb_release -r -s\\n++ UBUNTU_RELEASE=22.04\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/teleportd/downloads\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_WASM_VERSIONS='v0.3.0 v0.5.1'\\n++ MANIFEST_FILEPATH=/opt/azure/manifest.json\\n++ MAN_DB_AUTO_UPDATE_FLAG_FILEPATH=/var/lib/man-db/auto-update\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n++ echo 'Sourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+++ hostname\\n+++ tail -c 2\\n++ NODE_INDEX=0\\n+++ hostname\\n++ NODE_NAME=aks-nodepool1-21342552-vmss000000\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ -n curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/ ]]\\n+ [[ -n '' ]]\\n+ retrycmd_if_failure 50 1 5 curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/\\n+ exit 50\", \"Error\": \"\", \"ExecDuration\": \"50\", \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CloudInitLocalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:12 UTC\", \"CloudInitStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:15 UTC\", \"CloudFinalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:22 UTC\", \"NetworkdStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:13 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"SystemdSummary\": \"Startup finished in 546ms (firmware) + 1.203s (loader) + 1.270s (kernel) + 11.207s (userspace) = 14.227s \\ngraphical.target reached after 10.457s in userspace\", \"BootDatapoints\": { \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"KubeletStartTime\": \"n/a\" } }\n\n[stderr]\ndate: invalid date ‘n/a’\n\"\r\n\r\nMore information on troubleshooting is available at https://aka.ms/VMExtensionCSELinuxTroubleshoot " Target="0"
Code: CreateVMSSAgentPoolFailed
Message: Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, please see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror
and https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses for more information. 
Details: Code="VMExtensionProvisioningError" Message="VM has reported a failure when processing extension 'vmssCSE'. 
Error message: \"Enable failed: failed to execute command: command terminated with exit status=50
\n[stdout]\n{ \"ExitCode\": \"50\", \"Output\": \"sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_helpers_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n++ CC_SERVICE_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.service.in\\n++ CC_SOCKET_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.socket.in\\n++ CNI_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/cni/net.d\\n++ CNI_BIN_DIR=/opt/cni/bin\\n++ CNI_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/cni/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/crictl/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/containerd/downloads\\n++ RUNC_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/runc/downloads\\n++ K8S_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/kubernetes/downloads\\n+++ lsb_release -r -s\\n++ UBUNTU_RELEASE=22.04\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/teleportd/downloads\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_WASM_VERSIONS='v0.3.0 v0.5.1'\\n++ MANIFEST_FILEPATH=/opt/azure/manifest.json\\n++ MAN_DB_AUTO_UPDATE_FLAG_FILEPATH=/var/lib/man-db/auto-update\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n++ echo 'Sourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+++ hostname\\n+++ tail -c 2\\n++ NODE_INDEX=0\\n+++ hostname\\n++ NODE_NAME=aks-nodepool1-21342552-vmss000000\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ -n curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/ ]]\\n+ [[ -n '' ]]\\n+ retrycmd_if_failure 50 1 5 curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/\\n+ exit 50\", \"Error\": \"\", \"ExecDuration\": \"50\", \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CloudInitLocalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:12 UTC\", \"CloudInitStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:15 UTC\", \"CloudFinalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:22 UTC\", \"NetworkdStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:13 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"SystemdSummary\": \"Startup finished in 546ms (firmware) + 1.203s (loader) + 1.270s (kernel) + 11.207s (userspace) = 14.227s \\ngraphical.target reached after 10.457s in userspace\", \"BootDatapoints\": { \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"KubeletStartTime\": \"n/a\" } }\n\n[stderr]\ndate: invalid date ‘n/a’\n\"\r\n\r\n
More information on troubleshooting is available at https://aka.ms/VMExtensionCSELinuxTroubleshoot " Target="0"
```

Important highlights from the above:

> Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, please see [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror) 
> and [https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses](https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses) for more information

In Azure Portal you can see the following:

> This cluster is in a failed state. 
> If you didn't do an operation, AKS may resolve the provisioning status automatically if your cluster applications continue to run. 
> [Learn more](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/cluster-provisioning-status-changed-ready-failed)

You can query Azure Firewall to see more details about the blocked traffic:

```kql
AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith "10.10."
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn
```

| Protocol | DestinationPort | Fqdn                                                          | count_ |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.ods.opinsights.azure.com | 273    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | dc.services.visualstudio.com                                  | 47     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | mcr.microsoft.com                                             | 50     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | md-hdd-b4rzwnpfspxt.z38.blob.storage.azure.net                | 12     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | umsah0wq3xfzjmklf2nk.blob.core.windows.net                    | 6      |

You can use PowerShell to query the Azure Log Analytics workspace:

```powershell
$WorkspaceName = "log-firewall"
$ResourceGroupName = "rg-azure-firewall-and-network-testing"

$query = "AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith "10.10."
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn"
$query
$workspace = Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace -Name $WorkspaceName -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName

$queryResult = Invoke-AzOperationalInsightsQuery -Workspace $workspace -Query $query
$queryResult.Results | Format-Table
```

![KQL query output](https://github.com/JanneMattila/azure-firewall-and-network-testing/assets/2357647/096ee002-b3f8-4e16-9dd7-cdf86a0713c2)

## "mcr.microsoft.com" allowed

The following is the Application Rule that is required to access images in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR).

`mcr.microsoft.com`:

> Required to access images in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR). This registry contains first-party images/charts (for example, coreDNS, etc.). 
> These images are required for the correct creation and functioning of the cluster, including scale and upgrade operations.

`*.data.mcr.microsoft.com`:

> Required for MCR storage backed by the Azure content delivery network (CDN).

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow container images from mcr.microsoft.com'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-global-required-fqdn--application-rules'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    'mcr.microsoft.com'
    '*.data.mcr.microsoft.com'
  ]
}
```

```kql
AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith '10.10.' and Action == 'Deny'
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn
| order by count_
```

| Protocol | DestinationPort | Fqdn                                                          | count_ |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.ods.opinsights.azure.com | 423    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | dc.services.visualstudio.com                                  | 158    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | northeurope.monitoring.azure.com                              | 44     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | md-hdd-b4rzwnpfspxt.z38.blob.storage.azure.net                | 12     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.oms.opinsights.azure.com | 11     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | esm.ubuntu.com                                                | 8      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | packages.microsoft.com                                        | 8      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | umsanpnjwjtt1kbrqrqj.blob.core.windows.net                    | 6      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | data.policy.core.windows.net                                  | 4      |
| HTTP/1.1 | 80              | azure.archive.ubuntu.com                                      | 4      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | motd.ubuntu.com                                               | 4      |

## Monitoring and logging endpoints allowed

The following is the Application Rule that is required to access monitoring and logging endpoints.

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow monitoring'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-monitor-for-containers'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    'dc.services.visualstudio.com'
    '*.ods.opinsights.azure.com'
    '*.oms.opinsights.azure.com'
    '*.monitoring.azure.com'
  ]
}
```

## Azure AD endpoint allowed

Here is example error message if require connectivity is not configured:

```
ERROR: No matches in graph database for '2462d71f-4662-4db3-aabd-4290431551ed'
Waiting for AAD role to propagate[###                                 ]  10.0000%
ERROR: No matches in graph database for '2462d71f-4662-4db3-aabd-4290431551ed'
```

The following is the Application Rule that is required to allow Azure Active Directory authentication.

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow Azure Active Directory authentication'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-global-required-fqdn--application-rules'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    #disable-next-line no-hardcoded-env-urls
    'login.microsoftonline.com'
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

Add connectivity test script reference

workloads/private-aks/README.md, after:

# Private AKS

> **Warning**
> If you plan to deploy AKS into environment which has route `0.0.0.0/0` to your
> firewall, then you *must* make the required firewall openings before deploying AKS.
> **Otherwise AKS deployment will fail**.
> 
> Follow these instruction for the required openings:
> [Outbound rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress)

This below document tries to explain various problems that you might see 
if you don't have the required connectivity from the AKS cluster to the required targets.

If you see *any of the below problems*, then you need to double check that
you have the required connectivity from the AKS cluster to the required targets as documented in the above link.

You can test the connectivity requirements from virtual machine in same virtual network:

```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanneMattila/network-test-scripts/main/aks.sh | bash -s -- northeurope
```

Script can be found from [JanneMattila/network-test-scripts](https://github.com/JanneMattila/network-test-scripts).

## No connectivity

User Defined Route (UDR) implemented in AKS subnet to route all traffic to Azure Firewall in a hub VNET.

Here is example error message if require connectivity is not configured:

```bash
ERROR: (CreateVMSSAgentPoolFailed) Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, 
please see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror
and https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses for more information. 
Details: Code="VMExtensionProvisioningError" Message="VM has reported a failure when processing extension 'vmssCSE'. 
Error message: \"Enable failed: failed to execute command: command terminated with exit status=50\n[stdout]\n
{ \"ExitCode\": \"50\", \"Output\": \"sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_helpers_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 
/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n++ CC_SERVICE_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.service.in\\n++ CC_SOCKET_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.socket.in\\n++ CNI_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/cni/net.d\\n++ CNI_BIN_DIR=/opt/cni/bin\\n++ CNI_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/cni/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/crictl/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/containerd/downloads\\n++ RUNC_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/runc/downloads\\n++ K8S_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/kubernetes/downloads\\n+++ lsb_release -r -s\\n++ UBUNTU_RELEASE=22.04\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/teleportd/downloads\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_WASM_VERSIONS='v0.3.0 v0.5.1'\\n++ MANIFEST_FILEPATH=/opt/azure/manifest.json\\n++ MAN_DB_AUTO_UPDATE_FLAG_FILEPATH=/var/lib/man-db/auto-update\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n++ echo 'Sourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+++ hostname\\n+++ tail -c 2\\n++ NODE_INDEX=0\\n+++ hostname\\n++ NODE_NAME=aks-nodepool1-21342552-vmss000000\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ -n curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/ ]]\\n+ [[ -n '' ]]\\n+ retrycmd_if_failure 50 1 5 curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/\\n+ exit 50\", \"Error\": \"\", \"ExecDuration\": \"50\", \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CloudInitLocalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:12 UTC\", \"CloudInitStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:15 UTC\", \"CloudFinalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:22 UTC\", \"NetworkdStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:13 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"SystemdSummary\": \"Startup finished in 546ms (firmware) + 1.203s (loader) + 1.270s (kernel) + 11.207s (userspace) = 14.227s \\ngraphical.target reached after 10.457s in userspace\", \"BootDatapoints\": { \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"KubeletStartTime\": \"n/a\" } }\n\n[stderr]\ndate: invalid date ‘n/a’\n\"\r\n\r\nMore information on troubleshooting is available at https://aka.ms/VMExtensionCSELinuxTroubleshoot " Target="0"
Code: CreateVMSSAgentPoolFailed
Message: Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, please see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror
and https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses for more information. 
Details: Code="VMExtensionProvisioningError" Message="VM has reported a failure when processing extension 'vmssCSE'. 
Error message: \"Enable failed: failed to execute command: command terminated with exit status=50
\n[stdout]\n{ \"ExitCode\": \"50\", \"Output\": \"sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_helpers_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs.sh\\n++ CC_SERVICE_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.service.in\\n++ CC_SOCKET_IN_TMP=/opt/azure/containers/cc-proxy.socket.in\\n++ CNI_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/cni/net.d\\n++ CNI_BIN_DIR=/opt/cni/bin\\n++ CNI_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/cni/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/crictl/downloads\\n++ CRICTL_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/containerd/downloads\\n++ RUNC_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/runc/downloads\\n++ K8S_DOWNLOADS_DIR=/opt/kubernetes/downloads\\n+++ lsb_release -r -s\\n++ UBUNTU_RELEASE=22.04\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_DOWNLOAD_DIR=/opt/teleportd/downloads\\n++ TELEPORTD_PLUGIN_BIN_DIR=/usr/local/bin\\n++ CONTAINERD_WASM_VERSIONS='v0.3.0 v0.5.1'\\n++ MANIFEST_FILEPATH=/opt/azure/manifest.json\\n++ MAN_DB_AUTO_UPDATE_FLAG_FILEPATH=/var/lib/man-db/auto-update\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_installs_distro.sh\\n++ echo 'Sourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu'\\nSourcing cse_install_distro.sh for Ubuntu\\n+ wait_for_file 3600 1 /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ retries=3600\\n+ wait_sleep=1\\n+ filepath=/opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ paved=/opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n+ grep -Fq /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh /opt/azure/cloud-init-files.paved\\n++ seq 1 3600\\n+ for i in $(seq 1 $retries)\\n+ grep -Fq '#EOF' /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ break\\n+ sed -i /#EOF/d /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ echo /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+ source /opt/azure/containers/provision_configs.sh\\n+++ hostname\\n+++ tail -c 2\\n++ NODE_INDEX=0\\n+++ hostname\\n++ NODE_NAME=aks-nodepool1-21342552-vmss000000\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ false == \\\\t\\\\r\\\\u\\\\e ]]\\n+ [[ -n curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/ ]]\\n+ [[ -n '' ]]\\n+ retrycmd_if_failure 50 1 5 curl -v --insecure --proxy-insecure https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/\\n+ exit 50\", \"Error\": \"\", \"ExecDuration\": \"50\", \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CloudInitLocalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:12 UTC\", \"CloudInitStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:15 UTC\", \"CloudFinalStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:22 UTC\", \"NetworkdStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:13 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"SystemdSummary\": \"Startup finished in 546ms (firmware) + 1.203s (loader) + 1.270s (kernel) + 11.207s (userspace) = 14.227s \\ngraphical.target reached after 10.457s in userspace\", \"BootDatapoints\": { \"KernelStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:10 UTC\", \"CSEStartTime\": \"Tue May 23 08:35:29 UTC 2023\", \"GuestAgentStartTime\": \"Tue 2023-05-23 08:34:21 UTC\", \"KubeletStartTime\": \"n/a\" } }\n\n[stderr]\ndate: invalid date ‘n/a’\n\"\r\n\r\n
More information on troubleshooting is available at https://aka.ms/VMExtensionCSELinuxTroubleshoot " Target="0"
```

Important highlights from the above:

> Unable to establish outbound connection from agents, please see [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/error-code-outboundconnfailvmextensionerror) 
> and [https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses](https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses) for more information

In Azure Portal you can see the following:

> This cluster is in a failed state. 
> If you didn't do an operation, AKS may resolve the provisioning status automatically if your cluster applications continue to run. 
> [Learn more](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/cluster-provisioning-status-changed-ready-failed)

You can query Azure Firewall to see more details about the blocked traffic:

```kql
AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith "10.10."
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn
```

| Protocol | DestinationPort | Fqdn                                                          | count_ |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.ods.opinsights.azure.com | 273    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | dc.services.visualstudio.com                                  | 47     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | mcr.microsoft.com                                             | 50     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | md-hdd-b4rzwnpfspxt.z38.blob.storage.azure.net                | 12     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | umsah0wq3xfzjmklf2nk.blob.core.windows.net                    | 6      |

You can use PowerShell to query the Azure Log Analytics workspace:

```powershell
$WorkspaceName = "log-firewall"
$ResourceGroupName = "rg-azure-firewall-and-network-testing"

$query = "AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith "10.10."
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn"
$query
$workspace = Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace -Name $WorkspaceName -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName

$queryResult = Invoke-AzOperationalInsightsQuery -Workspace $workspace -Query $query
$queryResult.Results | Format-Table
```

![KQL query output](https://github.com/JanneMattila/azure-firewall-and-network-testing/assets/2357647/096ee002-b3f8-4e16-9dd7-cdf86a0713c2)

## "mcr.microsoft.com" allowed

The following is the Application Rule that is required to access images in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR).

`mcr.microsoft.com`:

> Required to access images in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR). This registry contains first-party images/charts (for example, coreDNS, etc.). 
> These images are required for the correct creation and functioning of the cluster, including scale and upgrade operations.

`*.data.mcr.microsoft.com`:

> Required for MCR storage backed by the Azure content delivery network (CDN).

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow container images from mcr.microsoft.com'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-global-required-fqdn--application-rules'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    'mcr.microsoft.com'
    '*.data.mcr.microsoft.com'
  ]
}
```

```kql
AZFWApplicationRule
| where SourceIp startswith '10.10.' and Action == 'Deny'
| summarize count() by Protocol, DestinationPort, Fqdn
| order by count_
```

| Protocol | DestinationPort | Fqdn                                                          | count_ |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.ods.opinsights.azure.com | 423    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | dc.services.visualstudio.com                                  | 158    |
| HTTPS    | 443             | northeurope.monitoring.azure.com                              | 44     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | md-hdd-b4rzwnpfspxt.z38.blob.storage.azure.net                | 12     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | 38c1758a-197e-44fc-83f8-31bb7619a8bc.oms.opinsights.azure.com | 11     |
| HTTPS    | 443             | esm.ubuntu.com                                                | 8      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | packages.microsoft.com                                        | 8      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | umsanpnjwjtt1kbrqrqj.blob.core.windows.net                    | 6      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | data.policy.core.windows.net                                  | 4      |
| HTTP/1.1 | 80              | azure.archive.ubuntu.com                                      | 4      |
| HTTPS    | 443             | motd.ubuntu.com                                               | 4      |

## Monitoring and logging endpoints allowed

The following is the Application Rule that is required to access monitoring and logging endpoints.

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow monitoring'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-monitor-for-containers'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    'dc.services.visualstudio.com'
    '*.ods.opinsights.azure.com'
    '*.oms.opinsights.azure.com'
    '*.monitoring.azure.com'
  ]
}
```

## Azure AD endpoint allowed

Here is example error message if require connectivity is not configured:

```
ERROR: No matches in graph database for '2462d71f-4662-4db3-aabd-4290431551ed'
Waiting for AAD role to propagate[###                                 ]  10.0000%
ERROR: No matches in graph database for '2462d71f-4662-4db3-aabd-4290431551ed'
```

The following is the Application Rule that is required to allow Azure Active Directory authentication.

```bicep
{
  ruleType: 'ApplicationRule'
  name: 'Allow Azure Active Directory authentication'
  description: 'For more details see: https://aka.ms/aks-required-ports-and-addresses and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#azure-global-required-fqdn--application-rules'
  sourceAddresses: [
    '*'
  ]
  protocols: [
    {
      port: 443
      protocolType: 'Https'
    }
  ]
  targetFqdns: [
    #disable-next-line no-hardcoded-env-urls
    'login.microsoftonline.com'
  ]
}
```
